# Exercise 1: Reflect

As stated before, The Reflect API goes hand-in-hand with the Proxy API. Reflection is a common concept in computer science. It allows you to observe structures at run time.

><p>In computer science, reflection is the ability of a computer program to examine, introspect, and modify its own structure and behavior at run time.</p>
><cite>https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reflection_(computer_programming)</cite>

Before the Reflect API, it was already possible to reflect. Consider the following examples:

```js
// 1. Observe whether the requestMIDIAccess property exists in window.navigator
if ('requestMIDIAccess' in window.navigator) {
    // ...
}

// 2. Get a property from a class instance
myInstance['myProperty'];

// 3. Call a function with any number of arguments
myFunction.apply(undefined, [1, 2]);
```

Above condition can be rewritten to:

```js
// 1.
if (Reflect.has(window.navigator, 'requestMIDIAccess')) {
    // ...
}

// 2.
Reflect.get(myInstance, 'myProperty');

// 3.
Reflect.apply(myFunction, undefined, [1, 2]);
```

Before continuing to the exercises, please take a moment to browse through the API:

> - `Reflect.apply()` - Calls a target function with arguments as specified by the args parameter. See also `Function.prototype.apply()`.
> - `Reflect.construct()` - The new operator as a function. Equivalent to calling `new target(...args)`. Provides also the optional possibility to specify a different prototype.
> - `Reflect.defineProperty()` - Similar to `Object.defineProperty()`. Returns a Boolean.
> - `Reflect.deleteProperty()` - The delete operator as a function. Equivalent to calling `delete target[name]`.
> - `Reflect.get()` - A function that returns the value of properties.
> - `Reflect.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()` - Similar to `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()`. Returns a property descriptor of the given property if it exists on the object,  undefined otherwise.
> - `Reflect.getPrototypeOf()` - Same as `Object.getPrototypeOf()`.
> - `Reflect.has()` - The in operator as function. Returns a boolean indicating whether an own or inherited property exists.
> - `Reflect.isExtensible()` - Same as `Object.isExtensible()`.
> - `Reflect.ownKeys()` - Returns an array of the target object's own (not inherited) property keys.
> - `Reflect.preventExtensions()` - Similar to `Object.preventExtensions()`. Returns a Boolean.
> - `Reflect.set()` - A function that assigns values to properties. Returns a Boolean that is true if the update was successful.
> - `Reflect.setPrototypeOf()` - A function that sets the prototype of an object.
>
> <cite>https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Reflect</cite>

## Exercise 1.1

Imagine we’re building a website for a financial business. This business wants to show a list of stock indexes. These are obtained from an HTTP API. The API response is JSON that might contain a `stocks` property, containing an array of stocks.

I wrote a function that requests the data and returns the `stocks` array or throws an error if that property is not present in the response.

Because I didn’t know anything about the Reflect API when writing the code, you’re going to correct it.

1. Type `npm start` to start the test watcher
2. Open the file `exercises/1.1.js`
3. Replace the `a in b` condition to use `Reflect`
4. Verify the code by running the tests

## Exercise 1.2

The website also has some forms and we need some mechanism to validate fields.

In `exercises/1.2.js` I’ve prepared a function that accepts a ruleset and returns a function. The returned function accepts a field and value and returns a list of errors.

Similar to previous exercise, I didn’t know about the Reflect API when writing `1.2.js`, and you’re going to correct that.

1. Make sure `npm start` runs
2. Open `exercises/1.2.js`
3. Replace all syntax where we can use `Reflect` (should be 5 changes)
4. Verify the code by running the tests

## Exercise 1.3

`exercise/1.3.js` is an implementation of a `memoize` function. This higher-order function accepts a function and returns another function. When invoked, it caches the return value. When invoked subsequently, it immediately returns the cached return value.

```js
const memoize = require('@vicompany/memoize');
const fibonacci = memoize(require('./functions/fibonacci'));

fibonacci(10); // Returns the 10th number in the fibbonacci sequence
fibonacci(10); // Returns the same value, but gets it out of cache
```

One day, someone reports an issue and attaches the following code:

```js
const memoize = require('@vicompany/memoize');
const fibonacci = require('./functions/fibonacci');
fibonacci.apply = null;

const fibonacciCached = memoize(fibonacci);

fibonacciCached(10); // Raises an error
fibonacciCached(10); // Raises an error
```

In `exercises/1.3.js`, `fn.apply()` is used to call the function with an unknown number of arguments. Above code proves the `apply` method can be overwritten, which causes the error. We can fix this by calling `Function.prototype.apply.call(fn, this, args)` instead. Consider following code:

```js
const fn = (name) => console.log(`Hello ${name}!`);

fn.apply(undefined, ['Hank']); // Logs "Hello Hank!"

fn.apply = null;
fn.apply(undefined, ['Hank']); // Throws an error, because apply no longer is a function

Function.prototype.apply.call(fn, undefined, ['Hank']); // Logs "Hello Hank!" again
```

Calling the `apply` method by getting it from `Function.prototype` is pretty verbose. Review the `Reflect` documentation and find a better way.

1. Make sure `npm start` runs
2. Open `exercises/1.3.js`
3. Find and fix the bug
4. Verify the code by running the tests

## Conclusion

Now you’ve completed the exercises, you’ve learned the following:

- Reflect API basics
- The Reflect API provides a more consistent experience to do reflection (`Reflect.*` vs. `b in a`, `a[b]`, `Object.isExtensible(obj)`, etc.)
- The Reflect API is less verbose when dealing with edge-cases (e.g. `Reflect.apply(fn, this, args)` vs `Function.prototype.apply.call(fn, this, args)`)

If you wonder why we need the Reflect API, consider reading [this answer on StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/25585988).

Now we’ve learned the basics of the Reflect API, let’s move on to Proxies in [Exercise 2](/exercises/2.md).
