# Exercise 2: Proxy Syntax

The `Proxy` object is an object that can handle operations of given wrapped object. Think of operations like lookups, assignments and function invocations.

A `Proxy` can be instanced as you would with a class:

```js
const obj = { foo: 'bar' };
const objWithProxy = new Proxy(obj, {
    get(target, name) {
        const value = Reflect.get(target, name);

        if (typeof value !== 'string') {
            return value;
        }

        return `${value}!`;
    },
});

objWithProxy.foo; // "bar"
```

You can also create a revocable proxy via the `Proxy.revocable` static method. This returns an object containing a `proxy` property and a `revoke` function.

```js
const obj = {};
const revocableProxy = Proxy.revocable(obj, {
    get(target, name) {
        return `[${name}]`;
    },
});

const objWithProxy = revocableProxy.proxy;
objWithProxy.foo; // "[[foo]]"
objWithProxy.bar; // "[[bar]]"

revocableProxy.revoke();

objWithProxy.foo; // TypeError
objWithProxy.bar; // TypeError
```

## Exercise 2.1

We’re going to create a prototype to test whether `Proxy`s can be helpful to ensure type safety. The idea is that this `Proxy` allows overwriting properties, but not if they are of a different type. Now consider following example:

```js
const typeSafeProxy = require('./2.1');

const price = typeSafeProxy({
    currency: 'EUR',
    value: 100,
});

// Should work, because the new value is the same type as the old value (number)
price.value = 101;

// Should throw an error, because the new value (string) type differs from the old value (number)
price.value = '101';
```

In `exercises/2.1.js` I’ve prepared a function that wraps any given object in a `Proxy`. You have to write the handler or trap.

1. Double check whether `npm start` still runs
2. Open `exercises/2.1.js`
3. Add a `set` trap to handle `set` operations
4. Make sure that when the old value and new value have different types, an error is thrown
5. Verify the code by running the tests

## Exercise 2.2

In this exercise, we’re going to implement logging using a `Proxy`. Whenever a function or class method is called, it must be logged.

The file `exercises/2.2.js` contains a function that accepts a function or class and a logger. You have to add handlers to trap functions and class method calls. Note that these are two separate things.

Tip: `Proxy` considers method lookups `get` operations that return a function, so you’ll need to add a `get` handler to handle those.

1. Make sure `npm start` runs
2. Open `exercises/2.2.js`
3. Configure the proxy (a `get` handler to handle method invocations and `apply` to handle function invocations)
4. Verify the code by running the tests

Having issues? Check out `answers/2.2.js`.

## Exercise 2.3

Let’s have a little bit of fun with the Proxy API.

Python has a operator for slicing lists and strings, the slice operator. Consider the following Python code:

```py
data = [1, 2, 3, 4] # Create a list

data[1:2] # Returns [2, 3]
data[2:3] # Returns [3, 4]
```

We can use `Proxy` to slice and return an array using similar syntax:

```js
const data = fancyArray([1, 2, 3, 4]);

data['1:2']; // Returns [2, 3]
data['2:3']; // Returns [3, 4]
```

In this exercise we’re essentially describing what a property of `data` should look like, rather than explicitly defining one. In other words, we’re resolving the property (e.g. `1:2`) at run time.

Note that the return value of our syntax includes the ending index. `Array.slice`, on the other hand, does not. Make sure function in `exercises/2.3.js` does.

1. Make sure `npm start` runs
2. Open `exercises/2.3.js`
3. Configure the proxy
4. Verify the code by running the tests

## Conclusion

Yay! You’re all done now! In past couple of exercises, you’ve learned:

- Proxy API basics
- It essentially wraps an object and you can define handlers to ‘trap’ operations
- `Proxy`s be a little weird sometimes, like with ES2015 classes
- A cool use-case for the Proxy API is resolving properties at run time

We’ve only covered a small subset of the Reflect and Proxy APIs.
